Hello and
welcome to our People Analytics course.
This is Cade Massey, Professor of
the practice here at the Wharton School
in the Operations Information and
Decisions Department.
I'm joined by
>> Matthew Bidwell, I'm
an Associate Professor in the Management
Department also at the Wharton School.
>> I'm Martine Haas.
I'm also an associate professor of
management in the Wharton School.
>> A lot of corporations say that
people are their most important asset.
In a sense, people analytics is
about taking that idea seriously and
behaving as if that were true.
So if you think about what's happened in
a lot of other fields over the last 10,
20 years, it's being the increasing use
of data and analytics to make decisions.
So if you think about finance,
it's really being revolutionized by these
quantitative models which
they use to price assets,
understand markets, occasionally
to blow up the financial markets.
But when they're not doing that,
really to try and
understand what's the way
we can make profits?
If you think about marketing,
increasingly, and
we have a marketing analytics course,
which is really focusing on
how people are now using more and more
data to understand their customers better.
To segment, to focus on how can we
create products that they want, and
how can we then really target
our marketing towards them?
The idea is to apply the same
ideas to people, okay?
In an organization when we manage people,
we have to make a lot of
different decisions,
those decisions should be informed.
So people analytics is really
just the use of data and
analytic tools to make better
decisions about how we manage people.
So a lot of the energy around people
analytics are stemmed from two places.
One is obviously this interest in
if we can manage our people better,
it's obviously gonna
benefit the organization.
The second place it comes from is
the sense that we now have more and
more data about what people are doing
that we could actually put at the service
of these decisions.
Also for a while now organizations
have been gathering data
on the basics of their personnel.
Their performance ratings every year, how
they're being paid, what their jobs are,
to give us a better sense of what's
going on in the organization.
Maybe be able to identify our
high performers and so on.
Increasingly that's being
supplemented by other data.
So we now see applicant tracking systems
where we put in the details of everybody
who applies to the job, so we can start
to understand how we're screening them.
We have to addition to
that now workflow data.
If you work in a call center, you're
going to have your calls monitored, so
we know how many calls
you make every hour.
What's the rate?
How many people hang up on you?
We have increasing data on
customer satisfaction, as well,
through the surveys you fill
out at the end of those calls.
So you know more and
more about how people are performing.
You can start to think
about what's driving them.
You see some of the same with
software engineers, where more and
more of their work is being monitored as
they check various pieces of code into
repositories and so on.
We can start to analyze that.
There are new dimensions
of this with communication.
More and more of our communication is
happening in technology mediated ways.
Through email, through telephone,
through bulletin boards and so on.
So, we can see who's talking to who.
Start to understand where
does collaboration happen?
Who are the hubs within the organization?
And even now we know where people
are increasingly with wearables and
other devices tracking people's location.
And so we know more and more about what
people are doing in the organization.
And the idea is we can start to
bring some of that data to bear
on understanding how could
we manage that better.
So we've seen this in a wide variety
of different kinds of decisions.
So from the basics of actually figuring
out what good performance means, and
who's exhibiting it to making
decisions about how to manage them.
Who should we be hiring?
Who should we promote?
What are kind of the career paths that
make sense within the organization?
What do the collaboration
patterns look like here?
Who are our critical communicators?
What can we do to get
communication improved?
On top of that, increasing so I wanna put
data behind some of our decisions about
how to manage overall programs.
So there are often issues
around is our training working?
What's our return on
investment on the training?
Our new fast-track promotion scheme,
is that a good idea or a bad idea?
If we change incentives, what happens?
Traditionally we've had to go by hunch and
feel for making these decisions.
Increasingly, though,
we can put data behind them.
That's really the promise here.
People analytics is a field that's really
been emerging over the last few years and
where there's tremendous
energy at the moment.
Part of what we want to do during this
course is transmit a little bit of that
excitement to you.
So we thought we'd just start by
saying why do we get excited about it?
At least Martine and
I both have English backgrounds, so
getting exciting is obviously
challenging for either of us.
But Cade is American, so I think he'll
be able to tell us slightly better.
Cade, what is it about people
analytics that excites you?
>> Well, where I come from academically
is the decision making world,
which mostly studies
the mistakes people make,
the biases they have in their judgment and
in their decisions.
And in recent years,
we've gotten a little more interested
in helping people fix that.
Not just documenting the mistakes, but
actually improving their decision-making.
And data provides this great opportunity.
It's not a panacea.
There's no guarantee because you
have data you make better decisions.
But it is an opportunity
to improve decision-making.
And so it's this great new avenue for
the decision-making world, and
then the people side of things is
just what I care the most about.
So we have colleagues that study
different elements of the business world.
And you kind of choose what
you are most passionate about,
what I really care about is individuals.
This is one of the main ways they are
affected, how organizations treat them,
who hires them, who promotes them.
And it's one of the main ways that
organizations then prosper or
don't, because individuals and
people are so important.
So it's this intersection
of better decision-making,
which is my academic background, and
people's lives and what people provide
to organizations that I care most about.
>> Martine?
>> So my research is in the area
of organizational behavior.
And my main interest, what I'm really,
spend a lot of time thinking about and
studying and trying to figure out is how
organizations can learn better from what
they do in one part of the world,
how they can transmit that learning so
that they can do better in their
operations in another part of the world.
And of course it's people
who are doing that, right?
So it's people who are learning from each
other, who are collecting information and
experiencing and developing expertise
in one part of the organization,
one part of the world.
How do they, how do other people,
especially in large distributed
organizations, learn from that?
And so this is a very distinctive
area in terms of people analytics.
It's kind of how do people work together
better in order to get their work done?
So it's not so much the selection and
hiring components,
which you guys think about a lot.
But really my focus is mostly
on these collaboration elements.
How can people work together
more effectively and
perform better as a result?
And so, again, people analytics
provides a really wealth of
possible data to look at
people collaborating because
previously we've just had to sort
of observe what people are doing.
Are they talking to each other?
Are they making phone calls?
We've had some data, we can ask people
in surveys some of this information.
But especially in large organizations,
where there's a lot of stuff going on,
now we have increasing sources of data to
enable us to really track how much people
are using databases to store
what they know, that somebody
else can access from somewhere very
far away, and maybe many months later.
We have all sorts of interaction forms,
communication through question and
answer online formats.
And obviously through conferences and
all sorts of other ways.
That we now are collecting data on to
see where these things are effective and
are helping people to
do their work better.
Or maybe they're just a time sink and
you're spending way too much time
trying to kind of access
these sources of information.
So trying to figure out what works and
what doesn't work, what enables teams,
individuals, and the organization as
a whole to collaborate more effectively is
really where my passion and
interest in this field lies.
>> Yeah, and
I think my motivation is fairly similar.
I mean I came at this from a study
of employment relations and
there I really got into this because I
think many of the things that Cade's
talking about that struck me.
Where do we spend our time?
At work.
Where does our money come
from that enables us to live?
At work.
Who produces staff,
people in jobs within organizations and
so to kind of, for me in order to
understand what makes a good society or
bad society is really now how
well does employment work?
How well is it organized?
Certainly the hope is that by better
analytics, putting better data,
we can make better decisions, which would
obviously be good for organizations,
but hopefully a big part of this will
also be providing better places for
people to work where they will enjoy
their work more and get more out of it.
So that's my hope for this field.